  
#Mighty Kingdoms

##Overview

In Mighty Kingdoms each army token represents up to 500 points of a Kings of War army, which are used to explore a hex map to build a player's kingdom. 

When other kingdoms are encountered, the Kings of War armies represented by the army tokens will be used to fight Kings of War tabletop battles. Bigger battles are fought by bringing multiple army tokens to the same hex. 

Players will want their kingdoms to be a mix of villages, cities and fortresses to allow them to build more settlements, recruit more armies, and feed those armies. Each full game turn represents one year, and cycles through summer and winter seasons.

Winning the game is based on how mighty your kingdom is at the end of the campaign. Might is measured by number of battles won, and number and size of settlements you control at the end.

A campaign lasts for 6 game years (36 turns).

##Index

1. Setup
2. The Year
3. Summer season
4. Winter season
5. Glossary

<P style="page-break-before: always">

##1. Setup

###Prerequisites
You wil need to provide around 20 small tokens of your kingdom's livery (colour/logo), approx 1cm square (any shape), to place in the hex tiles you control to show your ownership. These are known as 'control markers'. 

Players will also need 3000 points worth of miniatures for Kings of War battles. The bulk must be from your chosen race, however exactly 500 points of that may be allies, the specifics of how to include them is explained in the *Winter* section below. 3000 points is the theoretical maximum, and will only be required when a player brings their entire kindgom's forces against another's.

###Initial kingdom
A) Players each secretly choose a main race (army type) for their Kingdom. Once all players have chosen, they reveal it to all other players simultaneously. This is public knowledge for the rest of the game.

B) Players are assigned a random player order. This will change at the end of each summer month in the Reform phase.

C) In player order each player takes turns choosing a starting tile (denoted with a white circle) by placing a city on it. This is the player's Capital City.

D) In player order each player places all of 1 additional city, 1 fortress, and 2 villages on any of the 6 tiles surrounding the capital, with flags for their empire indicating their control of them. They also place control markers on the other 2 tiles not occupied by settlements to show they are also part of their kingdom.

E) Each player gets 1 army token to start. In player order, each player places it in any tile they control that contains a settlement.

The army token represents a 500 pt army list for their main race as chosen in A) above. The list must be legal as per the standard Kings of War rules, and may not include any allies. Each army token always represents 500 points. To have bigger battles, players bring more army tokens to the same hex to commit them all to a battle. To speed up the transition from map movement to tabletop battle, players are encouraged to pre-write up a list for each of 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, and 3000. You may write up a few options for each value if you want, and change them whenever you want, as the lists will not be fixed until the actual battle. You can just wait until the battle is about to occur to write your list as the composition of the army list can vary from battle to battle and will not need to be tracked explicitly, but this may slow down the overall game.

-------

##2. The Year

Play proceeds through the *Summer* season and *Winter* season. The *Summer* season is further broken down into months, during each of which players move armies, explore tiles and engage in battles. During the *Winter* season players build settlements and new armies.


