  
##4. Winter season

Winter has 3 phases

A) Gather resources  
B) Spend resources  
C) Deploy armies  

###A) Gather resources
There are two resources - food and gold. Each player gathers resources simultaneously based on the settlements in their kingdom.
For every village you control, gain 1 food. For every city you control, gain 1 gold. Your capital city produces an additional gold for you if you control it (but not for you or the enemy if an enemy has taken it over). If your capital city has been Razed but you rebuild it from a village into a city again, it will again count as a capital city.

###B) Spend resources
In player order, each player may make one purchase. A purchase may be a settlement, an army, or a tithe. Repeat the purchase cycle until no more players wish to spend resources.
Settlements
You may build settlements in tiles you control. Each tile may only contain one settlement. Consult the following table for the cost of building settlements in various target tiles you control. If you build a settlement in a tile that already contains a settlement, the old settlement is replaced with the new one. An greyed out entry means that type of settlement may not be built on that type of tile.

1g = 1 Gold
1f = 1 Food
Target tile contents






Settlement to build
Empty
Village
City
Fortress
Swamp
All mountains
Sea
Village
1g






City

1g 1f

1g



Fortress
1g 1f
1g






If to want to make radical changes to your kingdom's demographics, you may want to Raze the settlements during the summer. You cannot voluntarily destroy settlements during the winter.
Armies
At each fortress you may recruit 1 army each winter. You may use a fortress you built this winter to recruit an army. An army costs 1 food to recruit. Place an army token in the fortress as per Setup 5) above.

However, some of the army restrictions are loosened if the player has the correct terrain in their kingdom as follows:
    • If the fortress is in or adjacent to a tile you control with mountains or a swamp you may include monsters in that army.
    • If the Fortress is in or adjacent to a tile you control with forest on it you may include war machines in that army.

You may only have a maximum of 6 armies. If you wish to build a new army when you already have 6, you may disband an existing army to do so.
Tithe
Give 1 other player up to 1 gold and up to 1 food. These gifts may not be refused, but may be given away by the receiver in a later tithe action of their own. A player may only tithe to each enemy once each winter. A tithe may or may not be attached to deals, promises or threats, none of which are enforcable. Backstabbing is encouraged!
Wizard’s quests
If you control one or more tiles adjacent to a Wizard’s Tower, you may send one Hero on one quest per adjacent tower. The same Hero may not go on two or more quests, they must be different Heroes. Choose a Hero unit from any of your armies, and roll on the below table. You may add or subtract up to 1 to your roll to determine your quest. Regardless of how your Hero fares in their quest, they always return back to their army unharmed thanks to the wizard’s magic. 
Quest table
D6 +/- up to 1
Quest type
Effect
Reward
0-1
Chance
Roll 2D6. Gain the reward on any total other than 7.
1 random magical artefact worth 5-15 points
2
Speed
Roll 2D6 and add the Hero’s Sp. If the total is 13 or more, gain the reward.
1 random magical artefact worth 20 points
3
Agility
Roll 2D6 and modify by +1 for fly, +2 for nimble, +2 for individual, +1 for (Inf), +1 for pathfinder, -1 for Strider, -1 for (Cav), -2 for (Lge Cav), -3 for (Mon), -1 per Def over 4 (all cumulative). If the total is 10 or more, gain the reward.
1 random magical artefact worth 25 points
4
Courage
Roll 6 attacks against the Hero’s front facing as if shooting, hitting on 4+ with Blast D3 and piercing (1). Then roll a nerve check. If the Hero does not rout, gain the reward.
1 random magical artefact worth 30 points
5
Endurance
Roll 6 attacks hitting on 4+ with Blast D3 and crushing strength (2) as if in melee against the Hero’s front facing. Then roll a nerve check. If the Hero does not waver or rout, gain the reward.
1 random magical artefact worth 35 points
6-7
Combat
Roll 6 attacks hitting on 4+ with Blast D3 and crushing strength (2) as if in melee against the Hero’s front facing. Then roll a nerve check. If the Hero does not waver or rout, have the Hero make a normal melee or shooting attack against a foe with Def 5+, nerve -/9, and a nerve check. If the foe is routed, gain the reward.
1 random magical artefact worth 40-50 points

Magical Artefacts
Magical artefacts are unique across the entire game, not per army. There should only be one deck of magical artefacts card (or one list), and anytime someone gains one, no other player or army may have that same item. During the deploy armies phase, allocate your items to specific units in your armies. You may not change this allocation until next Winter (losing and recapturing an item is an exception to this). If a unit with an item is routed in a battle in which their army loses, give the item to the winning player to allocate to an appropriate unit in that winning army. They may not change this allocation until next winter. If there are no appropriate units in that army (eg: Scarletmaw’s Fenulian Amulet and the army has no Lightning Bolt), the item is considered held by the player’s Capital City instead, to be allocated next Winter. If the player does not hold their Capital city, the item is lost on the field, and returned to the available pool of items for Wizard’s Quests. An item held by a Capital City that is taken over by an enemy is given to a unit in an enemy army that was part of the takeover.

Magical Artefacts are bonus items and do not count towards the points value of the unit or army for any purpose.

###C) Deploy armies
Place each of your armies in any settlement you control. Settlements may only have a limited number of armies deployed to each of them as seen in the following table.
Deployment limits
Settlement
Maximum number of armies
Village
1
City
2
Fortress
3
